add more examples to query parameters (#777)
zalando/restful-api-guidelines: chapters/http-requests.adoc

* `created_at=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`, `sort=id:desc` - query elements based on logical properties
* `color=red,green,blue,multicolored` - query elements based on multiple choice possibility
** for these type of filters consider to use #237 guidance to have smth like filters={"color":["red","green","blue"]}

*Less than*
* `max_length=5` - query elements based on upper and lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
* `shorter_than=5` - query elements using terminology specific e.g. to _length_
* `price_lower_than=50` or `price_lower_than_or_equal=50`
* `created_before=2019-07-17` or `active_until=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`
** Using terminology specific e.g. to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_

*More than*
* `min_length=2` - query elements based on upper and lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
* `created_after=2019-07-17` or `modified_since=2019-07-17`
** Using terminology specific e.g. to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_
* `price_higher_than=50` or `price_equal_or_higher_than=50`

*Pagination*
* `offset=10` and `limit=5` - query elements for pagination regardless customer sorting
* `limit=5` and `created_after=2019-07-17` - query elements for keyset pagination

> ** when sorting is in place and new elements are inserted it prevents to show same results due to offset shift

Reviewer: Here we should also refer to pagination section as well as to [rule #137](https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/#137)

Author: done!

We prefer the use of query parameters to describe resource-specific
query languages for the majority of APIs because it's native to HTTP,

> easy to extend and an has excellent implementation support in HTTP clients

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
easy to extend and has an excellent implementation support in HTTP clients
```

and web frameworks.

By simple query language we mean one or more name-value pairs that are combined
in one way only with `and` semantics.

Query parameters should have the following aspects specified:

* Reference to corresponding property, if any
* Value range, e.g. inclusive vs. exclusive
* Comparison semantics (equals, less than, greater than, etc)
* Implications when combined with other queries, e.g. _and_ vs. _or_

How query parameters are named and used is up to individual API designers, here
are a few tips that could help to decide whether to use simple or more complex
query language:

> 1. Consider using simple query language when API is built to be used
> by others (external teams):
> * no additional effort/logic to form the query
> * no ambiguity in meaning of the query parameters. For example
> in GET /items?user_id=gt:100 user_id is greater than 100 or
> userId is equal to gt:100?
> * easy to read, no learning curve
> 
> 2. For internal usage or specific use case a more complex query language can
> be used (such as `price gt 10` or `price[gt]=10` or `price>10` etc.).
> Also please consider following #237 guidance for designing complex query
> languages with JSON.
> 
> The following examples should serve as ideas for simple query language:
> 
> *Equals*
> * `name=Zalando`, `creation_year=2023`, `updated_by=user1`
> (query elements based on property equality)
> * `created_at=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`, `sort=id:desc`
> (query elements based on logical properties)
> * `color=red,green,blue,multicolored`
> (query elements based on multiple choice possibility)
> ** for these type of filters consider to use #237 guidance to have
> smth like filters={"color":["red","green","blue"]}
> 
> *Less than*
> * `max_length=5` - query elements based on upper/lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
> * `shorter_than=5` - query elements using terminology specific e.g. to _length_
> * `price_lower_than=50` or `price_lower_than_or_equal=50`
> * `created_before=2019-07-17` or `active_until=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`
> ** Using terminology specific to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_
> 
> *More than*
> * `min_length=2` - query elements based on upper/lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
> * `created_after=2019-07-17` or `modified_since=2019-07-17`
> ** Using terminology specific to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_
> * `price_higher_than=50` or `price_equal_or_higher_than=50`
> 
> *Pagination*
> * `offset=10` and `limit=5`
> (query elements for pagination regardless customer sorting)
> * `limit=5` and `created_after=2019-07-17`
> (query elements for keyset pagination)
> ** when sorting is in place and new elements are inserted it prevents to show
> same results due to offset shift.
> Please refer to <<137, conventional query parameters for pagination and sorting>>
> and you can also find additional info in <<pagination>> section below.

Reviewer 2: You need some line breaks and indentation so it looks properly when rendered. (Use `make html` locally to preview.)
```suggestion
1. Consider using simple query language when API is built to be used
   by others (external teams):

   * no additional effort/logic to form the query
   * no ambiguity in meaning of the query parameters. For example
     in `GET /items?user_id=gt:100`, is `user_id` greater than `100` or
    is `user_id` equal to `gt:100`?
   * easy to read, no learning curve

2. For internal usage or specific use case a more complex query language
  can be used (such as `price gt 10` or `price[gt]=10` or `price>10` etc.).
  Also please consider following <<237, our guidance for designing complex query languages with JSON>>.

The following examples should serve as ideas for simple query language:

=== Equals

* `name=Zalando`, `creation_year=2023`, `updated_by=user1`  (query elements based on property equality)
* `created_at=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`, `sort=id:desc` (query elements based on logical properties)
* `color=red,green,blue,multicolored` (query elements based on multiple choice possibility)
** for these type of filters, consider to use <<237,guidance>> to have
smth like `filters={"color":["red","green","blue"]}`.

=== Less than

* `max_length=5` - query elements based on upper/lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
* `shorter_than=5` - query elements using terminology specific e.g. to _length_
* `price_lower_than=50` or `price_lower_than_or_equal=50`
* `created_before=2019-07-17` or `active_until=2023-09-18T12:12:00.000Z`
** Using terminology specific to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_

=== More than

* `min_length=2` - query elements based on upper/lower bounds (`min` and `max`)
* `created_after=2019-07-17` or `modified_since=2019-07-17`
** Using terminology specific to time: _before_, _after_, _since_ and _until_
* `price_higher_than=50` or `price_equal_or_higher_than=50`

=== Pagination

* `offset=10` and `limit=5` (query elements for pagination regardless customer sorting)
* `limit=5` and `created_after=2019-07-17` (query elements for keyset pagination)
** when sorting is in place and new elements are inserted, it prevents showing repeated/missing results due to offset shift.

Please refer to <<137, conventional query parameters for pagination and sorting>>
and you can also find additional info in <<pagination>> section below.
```
